Auth: Improve groups claim setup docs for AzureAD (#78791)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/azuread/index.md

- [Configure Azure AD OAuth2 authentication](#configure-azure-ad-oauth2-authentication)
  - [Create the Azure AD application](#create-the-azure-ad-application)
    - [Configure application roles for Grafana in the Azure Portal](#configure-application-roles-for-grafana-in-the-azure-portal)

>     - [Configure Application roles for Grafana in the manifest file](#configure-application-roles-for-grafana-in-the-manifest-file)

Reviewer: You have application and Application roles - for consistency is should be lowercase or capitalized the same throughout the document.

Author: Fixed.

    - [Assign server administrator privileges](#assign-server-administrator-privileges)
  - [Enable Azure AD OAuth in Grafana](#enable-azure-ad-oauth-in-grafana)
    - [Configure refresh token](#configure-refresh-token)
    - [Configure allowed tenants](#configure-allowed-tenants)
    - [Configure allowed groups](#configure-allowed-groups)
      - [Configure group membership claims on the Azure Portal](#configure-group-membership-claims-on-the-azure-portal)

>       - [Configure group membership claim in the manifest file](#configure-group-membership-claim-in-the-manifest-file)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - [Configure group membership claims in the manifest file](#configure-group-membership-claim-in-the-manifest-file)
```

    - [Configure allowed domains](#configure-allowed-domains)
    - [PKCE](#pkce)
    - [Configure automatic login](#configure-automatic-login)
    - [Team Sync (Enterprise only)](#team-sync-enterprise-only)
  - [Common troubleshooting](#common-troubleshooting)
    - [Users with over 200 Group assignments](#users-with-over-200-group-assignments)

>       - [Configure the required Graph API permissions](#configure-the-required-graph-api-permissions)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      - [Configure Graph API permissions](#configure-the-required-graph-api-permissions)
```

1. Click **Add** then copy the key value. This is the OAuth client secret.

> 2. You can define the required Application Roles for Grafana [using the Azure Portal](#configure-application-roles-for-grafana-on-the-azure-portal) or [using the manifest file](#configure-application-roles-for-grafana-in-the-manifest-file).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Define the required application roles for Grafana [using the Azure Portal](#configure-application-roles-for-grafana-on-the-azure-portal) or [using the manifest file](#configure-application-roles-for-grafana-in-the-manifest-file).
```

> 3. Go to **Azure Active Directory** and then to **Enterprise Applications**. Search for your application and click on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to **Azure Active Directory** and then to **Enterprise Applications**. 

1. Search for your application and click it.
```

> 4. Click on **Users and Groups** and add Users/Groups to the Grafana roles by using **Add User**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Users and Groups**.

1. Click **Add User** to add a user or group to the Grafana roles.
```

Author: Replaced, but changed "Add user" to "Add user/group" to match the label of the button.

> #### Configure Application roles for Grafana on the Azure Portal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Configure application roles for Grafana in the Azure Portal
```

> In this seciont we'll go through how to setup basic Appplication roles for Grafana from the Azure Portal. More info can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/howto-add-app-roles-in-apps):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes setting up basic application roles for Grafana within the Azure Portal. For more information, refer [Add app roles to your application and receive them in the token](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/howto-add-app-roles-in-apps).
```

> 1. Go to **App Registrations**. Search for your application and click on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to **App Registrations**, search for your application, and click it.
```

> 1. Click on **App roles** and then **Create app role**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **App roles** and then **Create app role**.
```

1. Define a role corresponding to each Grafana role: Viewer, Editor, and Admin. 

    1. Choose a **Display name** for the role. For example, "Grafana Editor".
            
    1. Set the **Allowed member types** to **Users/Groups**.

    1. Ensure that the **Value** field matches the Grafana role name. For example, "Editor".

    1. Choose a **Description** for the role. For example, "Grafana Editor Users".

    1. Click **Apply**.

#### Configure Application roles for Grafana in the manifest file

> 

Reviewer 2: Add an introduction here that explains when and why I would use this approach over the Azure portal.

Author: It's based on the user's preference, I added this: "If you prefer to configure the application roles for Grafana in the manifest file, complete the following steps:"

> 1. Go to **App Registrations**. Search for your application and click on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to **App Registrations**, search for your application, and click it.
```

> 1. Click on **Manifest** and then **Edit**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Manifest** and then click **Edit**.
```

> 1. Every role requires a [Universally Unique Identifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) which you can generate on Linux with `uuidgen`, and on Windows through Microsoft PowerShell with `New-Guid`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add a Universally Unique Identifier to each role. 

   Every role requires a [Universally Unique Identifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) which you can generate on Linux with `uuidgen`, and on Windows through Microsoft PowerShell with `New-Guid`.
```

> 1. Generate a unique ID for each role and replace each "SOME_UNIQUE_ID" with the generated ID in the manifest file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Replace each "SOME_UNIQUE_ID" with the generated ID in the manifest file:
```

    ```json
    	"appRoles": [
    			{
    				"allowedMemberTypes": [
    					"User"
    				],
    				"description": "Grafana org admin Users",
    				"displayName": "Grafana Org Admin",
    				"id": "SOME_UNIQUE_ID",
    				"isEnabled": true,
    				"lang": null,
    				"origin": "Application",
    				"value": "Admin"
    			},
    			{
    				"allowedMemberTypes": [
    					"User"
    				],
    				"description": "Grafana read only Users",
    				"displayName": "Grafana Viewer",
    				"id": "SOME_UNIQUE_ID",
    				"isEnabled": true,
    				"lang": null,
    				"origin": "Application",
    				"value": "Viewer"
    			},
    			{
    				"allowedMemberTypes": [
    					"User"
    				],
    				"description": "Grafana Editor Users",
    				"displayName": "Grafana Editor",
    				"id": "SOME_UNIQUE_ID",
    				"isEnabled": true,
    				"lang": null,
    				"origin": "Application",
    				"value": "Editor"
    			}
    		],

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Something is strange here. I'm not sure why this line and the next few lines appear in red.

Author: The issue has disappeared. :)

This section describes setting up basic application roles for Grafana within the Azure Portal. For more information, refer [Add app roles to your application and receive them in the token](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/howto-add-app-roles-in-apps).

1. Go to **App Registrations**, search for your application, and click it.

1. Click **App roles** and then **Create app role**.

1. Define a role corresponding to each Grafana role: Viewer, Editor, and Admin.

   1. Choose a **Display name** for the role. For example, "Grafana Editor".

   1. Set the **Allowed member types** to **Users/Groups**.

   1. Ensure that the **Value** field matches the Grafana role name. For example, "Editor".

   1. Choose a **Description** for the role. For example, "Grafana Editor Users".

   1. Click **Apply**.

#### Configure Application roles for Grafana in the manifest file

If you prefer to configure the application roles for Grafana in the manifest file, complete the following steps:

1. Go to **App Registrations**, search for your application, and click it.

1. Click **Manifest** and then click **Edit**.

1. Add a Universally Unique Identifier to each role.

>    Every role requires a [Universally Unique Identifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) which you can generate on Linux with `uuidgen`, and on Windows through Microsoft PowerShell with `New-Guid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Every role requires a [Universally Unique Identifier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) which you can generate on Linux with `uuidgen`, and on Windows through Microsoft PowerShell with `New-Guid`.
{{% /admonition %}}
```

   		],
   ```

> 1. Click on **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click  **Save**.
```

   allowed_groups = 8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d
   ```

> 1. Verify that [group attributes](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/optional-claims#configure-groups-optional-claims) is enabled in your Azure AD Application Registration manifest file by navigating to **Azure Portal** > **Azure Active Directory** > **Application Registrations** > **Select Application** -> **Manifest**, and set the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To enable [group attributes](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/optional-claims#configure-groups-optional-claims) in your Azure AD Application Registration manifest file, navigate to **Azure Portal** > **Azure Active Directory** > **Application Registrations** > **Select Application** > **Manifest**.

1. Set the following:
```

   ```
   "groupMembershipClaims": "ApplicationGroup, SecurityGroup"
   ```

#### Configure group membership claims

> To make sure that the `groups` claim is included in the token, you need to add the `groups` claim to the token configuration either through the Azure Portal UI or by editing the manifest file. To do this from the Azure Portal UI: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that the `groups` claim is included in the token, add the `groups` claim to the token configuration either through the Azure Portal UI or by editing the manifest file. 

To configure group membership claims from the Azure Portal UI, complete the following steps: 
```

> 1. Navigate to the **App Registrations** page and select your application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the **App Registrations** page and select your application.
```

> 1. Select **Token configuration**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select **Token configuration**.
```

> 1. Click on **Add groups claim** and then select the relevant option for your use case (for example, **Security groups**). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add groups claim** and then select the relevant option for your use case (for example, **Security groups**). 
```

 
For more information, see [Configure groups optional claims](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/optional-claims#configure-groups-optional-claims).

> > If the user is a member of more than 200 groups, Azure AD does not emit the groups claim in the token and emits a group overage claim instead. To setup group overage claim, see [Users with over 200 Group assignments](#users-with-over-200-group-assignments).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If the user is a member of more than 200 groups, Azure AD does not emit the groups claim in the token and instead emits a group overage claim. To set up a group overage claim, see [Users with over 200 Group assignments](#users-with-over-200-group-assignments).
```

### Configure allowed groups

> Azure AD groups can be used to limit user access to Grafana. More info about managing groups in Azure AD can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/how-to-manage-groups).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Azure AD groups can be used to limit user access to Grafana. For more information about managing groups in Azure AD, refer to [Manage Microsoft Entra groups and group membership](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/how-to-manage-groups).
```

To limit access to authenticated users who are members of one or more AzureAD groups, set `allowed_groups`

> to a comma- or space-separated list of group object IDs. You can find object IDs for a specific group on the Azure portal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to a comma- or space-separated list of group object IDs. 

Complete the following step to find object IDs for a specific group on the Azure portal:
```

Author: Done

> 1. Go to **Azure Active Directory -> Groups**. If you want to only give access to members of the group `example` with an Object Id of `8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d`, then set the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to **Azure Active Directory >  Groups**. 

   If you want to only give access to members of the group `example` with an Object Id of `8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d`, then set the following:
```

   ```
   allowed_groups = 8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d
   ```

> You can find the Object Id of a group by clicking on the group and then clicking on **Properties**. The object ID is listed under **Object ID**.

> 1. You can enable adding the [group attribute](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/optional-claims#configure-groups-optional-claims) to the tokens in your Azure AD App registration either [from the Azure Portal](#configure-group-membership-claims-on-the-azure-portal) or [from the manifest file](#configure-group-membership-claim-in-the-manifest-file).

Reviewer 2: Are we telling the user to do this? The word "can" makes it sound optional.

Author: It's required. I replaced "can" with "must";

#### Configure group membership claims on the Azure Portal

To ensure that the `groups` claim is included in the token, add the `groups` claim to the token configuration either through the Azure Portal UI or by editing the manifest file. 

To configure group membership claims from the Azure Portal UI, complete the following steps: 
1. Navigate to the **App Registrations** page and select your application.
1. Select **Token configuration**.
1. Click **Add groups claim** and then select the relevant option for your use case (for example, **Security groups** and **Groups assigned to the application**). 
 
For more information, see [Configure groups optional claims](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/optional-claims#configure-groups-optional-claims).

> If the user is a member of more than 200 groups, Azure AD does not emit the groups claim in the token and instead emits a group overage claim. To set up a group overage claim, see [Users with over 200 Group assignments](#users-with-over-200-group-assignments).

#### Configure group membership claim in the manifest file

> 1. Go to **App Registrations**. Search for your application and click on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to **App Registrations**, search for your application, and click it.
```

> 1. Click on **Manifest** and then **Edit**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Manifest** and then click **Edit**.
```

> 2. Add the following to the root of the manifest file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the following to the root of the manifest file:
```

### Configure allowed groups

Azure AD groups can be used to limit user access to Grafana. For more information about managing groups in Azure AD, refer to [Manage Microsoft Entra groups and group membership](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/fundamentals/how-to-manage-groups).

To limit access to authenticated users who are members of one or more AzureAD groups, set `allowed_groups`

> to a comma- or space-separated list of group object IDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a **comma-** or **space-separated** list of group object IDs.
```

Complete the following step to find object IDs for a specific group on the Azure portal:

1. Go to **Azure Active Directory > Groups**.

>    If you want to only give access to members of the group `example` with an Object Id of `8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d`, then set the following:

Reviewer: Ths section with the example feels out of place here.  I would add this as an example at the end of the instructions.

Author: Moved it after the 'You can find the Object Id...' note.

   ```
   allowed_groups = 8bab1c86-8fba-33e5-2089-1d1c80ec267d
   ```

> > You can find the Object Id of a group by clicking on the group and then clicking on **Properties**. The object ID is listed under **Object ID**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
You can find the Object Id of a group by clicking on the group and then clicking on **Properties**. The object ID is listed under **Object ID**.
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
```

1. You must enable adding the [group attribute](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/optional-claims#configure-groups-optional-claims) to the tokens in your Azure AD App registration either [from the Azure Portal](#configure-group-membership-claims-on-the-azure-portal) or [from the manifest file](#configure-group-membership-claim-in-the-manifest-file).

#### Configure group membership claims on the Azure Portal

To ensure that the `groups` claim is included in the token, add the `groups` claim to the token configuration either through the Azure Portal UI or by editing the manifest file.

To configure group membership claims from the Azure Portal UI, complete the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **App Registrations** page and select your application.
1. Select **Token configuration**.

> 1. Click **Add groups claim** and then select the relevant option for your use case (for example, **Security groups** and **Groups assigned to the application**).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add groups claim** and select the relevant option for your use case (for example, **Security groups** and **Groups assigned to the application**).
```

For more information, see [Configure groups optional claims](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/optional-claims#configure-groups-optional-claims).

> > If the user is a member of more than 200 groups, Azure AD does not emit the groups claim in the token and instead emits a group overage claim. To set up a group overage claim, see [Users with over 200 Group assignments](#users-with-over-200-group-assignments).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
If the user is a member of more than 200 groups, Azure AD does not emit the groups claim in the token and instead emits a group overage claim. To set up a group overage claim, see [Users with over 200 Group assignments](#users-with-over-200-group-assignments).
{{% /admonition %}}
```

If Grafana receives a token with a group overage claim instead of a groups claim,
Grafana attempts to retrieve the user's group membership by calling the included endpoint.

> Note: The 'App registration' must include the `GroupMember.Read.All` API permission for group overage claim calls to succeed.
> Admin consent may be required for this permission.

#### Configure the required Graph API permissions

1. Go to **Azure Active Directory -> App registrations** and select your application.
2. Select **API permissions** and then click on **Add a permission**.
3. Select **Microsoft Graph** from the list of APIs.
4. Select **Delegated permissions**.

> 5. Select **GroupMember.Read.All** (under the **GroupMember** section).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Under the **GroupMember** section, select **GroupMember.Read.All**.
```

> 6. Click **Add permissions**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Click **Add permissions**. 
```

If Grafana receives a token with a group overage claim instead of a groups claim,
Grafana attempts to retrieve the user's group membership by calling the included endpoint.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
The 'App registration' must include the `GroupMember.Read.All` API permission for group overage claim calls to succeed.

> Admin consent may be required for this permission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Admin consent might be required for this permission.
```

If Grafana receives a token with a group overage claim instead of a groups claim,
Grafana attempts to retrieve the user's group membership by calling the included endpoint.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
The 'App registration' must include the `GroupMember.Read.All` API permission for group overage claim calls to succeed.

Admin consent might be required for this permission.
{{% /admonition %}}

#### Configure the required Graph API permissions

1. Navigate to **Azure Active Directory > App registrations** and select your application.
1. Select **API permissions** and then click on **Add a permission**.
1. Select **Microsoft Graph** from the list of APIs.
1. Select **Delegated permissions**.
1. Under the **GroupMember** section, select **GroupMember.Read.All**.
1. Click **Add permissions**.

> > Admin consent may be required for this permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
Admin consent may be required for this permission.
{{% /admonition %}}
```
